- [Derek] Say you wanna drive
from New York to San Francisco.
How could you calculate
the absolute shortest path?
There are over 64 million intersections
in the North American road system,
so a simplified estimate gives around
10 to the 220 possible routes.
Even if you could check a
billion routes per second,
testing all of them
would still take over 10 to the 200 years.
And this isn't just a problem
for navigation software.
Any independent system like a robot
or a video game character
that needs to navigate a maze,
or obstacle course
faces this same problem.
And yet, Google or Apple
Maps will find you the route
in only four seconds.
So how is that possible?
Well, we teamed up with the channel 2swap,
who creates incredible
simulations and animations
to show you step by step,
how these algorithms work.
They trace their origins
back to a shopping trip
in Amsterdam in 1956.
(jaunty music)
Edsger Dijkstra needed a problem.
He was working on software for ARMAC,
an early computer developed
at the mathematical center
in the Netherlands.
And it was almost ready to debut.
But at the time, the general
public considered computers
to be practically useless.
So useless, in fact,
that Dijkstra ran into issues
filing his marriage license.
- [Casper's Dijkstra Impression]
Dutch marriage rights require you
to state your profession,
and I said that I was a programmer.
But the municipal authorities
of the town of Amsterdam
didn't accept it on the ground
that there was no such profession.
And believe it or not, that
under the heading "profession,"
my marriage act shows
the ridiculous entry,
"theoretical physicist."
- [Derek] And so Dijkstra was
looking for a specific demo
to prove just how powerful ARMAC
was, even to the layperson.
- ['Dijkstra'] The problem of course,
is that for a demonstration
for non-computing people,
you have to have a problem statement
that non-mathematicians can understand.
And they have to understand the answer.
- [Derek] And during that shopping trip,
he thought of the perfect problem.
- ['Dijkstra'] What's the shortest way
to travel from Rotterdam to Groningen?
- [Derek] In other words,
a shortest path algorithm.
Here's a simplified
graph of the Netherlands.
The nodes represent the cities,
and the edges connecting
them are the roads.
The simplest way to find the shortest path
from Rotterdam to
Groningen looks like this.
Starting from Rotterdam,
we're first going to
explore all its neighbors
looking for Groningen.
Since Groningen isn't one
of these neighboring nodes,
we'll mark Rotterdam as
explored, and keep searching.
So now we'll branch out
from these four nodes
to explore all of their neighbors.
And we keep branching out this way,
exploring all neighboring nodes,
until we stumble upon Groningen.
This algorithm is known
as Breadth-First Search.
It will always find the shortest path
because it checks all nodes one step away,
and then two steps away, and so on.
So if there were a path
from Rotterdam to Groningen
in four steps,
we would've found it on the
fourth iteration, but we didn't.
So the shortest path must be five steps.
But there's a problem with this approach.
I mean, the algorithm
considers all these roads
to be the same length,
which is obviously not true.
So let's add weights
to represent distances
between these nodes.
Now the shortest path is
much harder to figure out.
So Dijkstra needed a better method.
- ['Dijkstra'] One morning I
was shopping in Amsterdam
with my young fiance, and tired,
we sat down on the cafe terrace
to drink a cup of coffee.
And I was just thinking about
whether I could do this.
- [Henry] His idea was this.
First he wanted to keep track
of the shortest distance
from the source to each node.
This is also known as its cost.
His goal, well, if he could
find the shortest path
from the source to one node,
then he could build up
other shortest paths
starting from this new node,
and then the next, and on and on.
Now, the cost of the
starting node was zero.
But since he hadn't actually explored
the rest of the graph yet,
he set all the other nodes
to a cost of infinity.
Then just like breadth-first search,
Dijkstra started from the source,
and explored each of
its neighboring nodes.
At every step he'd ask,
"Is the current path to this node
the shortest we've seen so far?"
For example, this edge
only has a weight of one,
while the node's current cost is infinity.
So this path is the
shortest yet to that node.
So Dijkstra updated its cost to one.
Likewise, these nodes were
updated to three, two, and four.
After checking all of
Rotterdam's neighboring nodes,
Dijkstra marked it as explored.
Then since this node had the lowest cost
out of all the unexplored nodes,
Dijkstra explored it next.
Like before, he checked each of its edges
to reduce the neighbor's costs.
Dijkstra could update this neighbor
from infinity down to six,
a total path length of five plus one,
but he couldn't update this one.
The current path has a cost of five,
but the nodes' cost was three.
That meant there was
already a shorter path,
this one directly from the source.
So there was no need to update the cost.
The next node to explore is
this one with a cost of two,
which would update its neighbor to five.
Then this one with a cost of three
would update its neighbors, and so on.
Sometimes Dijkstra had to update
a node's cost a few times.
For example, he first reached
this node through this path
with edge weights four, and then three,
for a total cost of seven.
But later he found this path was cost six.
So he updated the nodes cost again.
(gentle music)
The first time Dijkstra reached Groningen,
it had a cost of 19.
But it didn't have the lowest cost
out of all the unexplored nodes.
There was still this
node with a cost of 16,
which could be hiding a
shorter path to our goal.
So he continued exploring
nodes in cost order,
and found this path with cost 18.
Now, out of all unexplored nodes,
Groningen had the next lowest cost.
So Dijkstra was confident that
he'd found the shortest path.
Here's why.
If the lowest cost among
the unexplored nodes is 18,
then Dijkstra must have
explored all the paths
with cost 16, 14, 13,
every path less than 18.
And none of those paths reached Groningen.
It's just like breadth-first search,
searching every step away from the source.
By exploring from lowest to highest cost,
Dijkstra's algorithm
guaranteed the shortest path
to any target.
- ['Dijkstra'] It was a 20-minute invention.
I designed it without pencil and paper.
I learned later that one of the advantages
of designing without pencil and paper
is that you are almost forced
to avoid all avoidable complexities.
- [Derek] During ARMAC's
official inauguration in 1956,
Dijkstra asked the audience
members for two towns
on a simplified map of the Netherlands.
ARMAC then printed the
shortest route town by town.
It ran perfectly.
The computer was such a success
that the center immediately
started the next generation.
And as for his algorithm, well,
it just sat in his papers for years.
Algorithms weren't respectable enough
for mathematics journals,
and there weren't very many
computing journals yet.
But in 1959, he published his
work in Numerische Mathematik,
or Numerical Mathematics,
a brand new German journal
that needed some help getting established.
And that was the beginning.
- ['Dijkstra'] Eventually,
that algorithm became,
to my great amazement, one of
the cornerstones of my fame.
I found it in the early '60s
in a German book on management science,
Das Dijktra'sche Verfahren.
Suddenly there was a
method named after me.
Dijkstra's algorithm is still regarded
as one of the most elegant,
shortest path algorithms.
But it isn't good enough for Google Maps.
Let's say I want to get from
Newark Airport in New Jersey
over to the Central Park Zoo.
First, Dijkstra's algorithm
checks all the 10-kilometer journeys,
and then all the 20 kilometer journeys,
and so on until it reaches
all the 28 kilometer journeys,
which includes the zoo.
The search frontier
covers over 65,000 nodes,
and includes places that are way off,
like Staten Island, and
large swaths of New Jersey.
But even though it searched
in a illogical directions,
the runtime was about a 10th of a second,
which is incredibly fast.
And for anyone wanting
to set up their own pathfinding tests,
we were able to get a
feel for these algorithms
using some Python scripts
and actual maps from OpenStreetMaps.
Solving problems using code like this
is as much about the journey
as it is about the destination.
You get to understand how
Dijkstra works under the hood.
Along the way, you also brush
up on your coding skills.
If that's something you wanna try out,
I strongly recommend
today's sponsor, Boot.dev.
Instead of blinding you with code,
their courses drill in the fundamentals
by giving you actual problems to solve.
Designing an RPG game,
building a payment app,
or yes, running Dijkstra's algorithm.
Their courses start with overview videos
and steadily feed in terminology
to make sure that you
actually understand it.
They even cover pronunciation.
You ever heard of SQL?
Okay, it's SQL.
Well, it's a programming language
that's become a bottleneck
for certain jobs.
Take data science.
60% of US job listings last
year required you to know SQL.
That's almost 80% for Python.
Boot.dev is geared up to teach
you the languages and tools
that you'll need for
backend and DevOps roles.
From Go in Docker to Linux and AWS.
You can start from scratch,
or jump into more advanced topics.
See, DevOps engineers in the US
are still some of the
highest paid tech roles.
Because these skills are
genuinely hard to learn.
And that's the point.
To get started, go to Boot.dev
and use our code "Veritasium"
to get 25% off your entire
first year on the annual plan.
I wanna thank Boot.dev
for sponsoring this part of the video.
Now less than 100 milliseconds
seems pretty fast.
So what's the problem?
Well, things slow down a lot
with bigger and bigger graphs.
Like the North America network.
One way we can compare search algorithms
is by their average query speed.
First we pick lots of random points.
Then we run Dijkstra's
algorithm on each pair of points
and average all the runtimes.
On the North American network,
a well-tuned Dijkstra takes
around seven seconds per path.
And for a lot of these searches,
the algorithm has to explore
most of those 64 million nodes.
One note, most of the
queries in this average
are for very long journeys,
since it's unlikely that
two randomly picked points
will be close together.
Now we've seen that
Dijkstra runs much faster
within one city, but this
average is a good way
to compare pathfinding algorithms.
But still, I can wait seven seconds.
I mean it took about
four seconds on my phone.
But the thing is, it's not just me.
I'm waiting in a line behind Derek,
Gregor, Casper, and all of you.
There can be millions of people
asking for directions all at once.
And while Google has a lot
of servers, there's a limit.
If we want Google Maps to
run in a couple of seconds,
we actually need the algorithm
to run in less than a millisecond,
something 7,000 times
faster than Dijkstra's.
(whooshing sound)
Well, one problem with Dijkstra's
is it searches in the opposite
direction of the target.
So if we know the rough direction,
is there a way that we can
punish a illogical route?
Let's go back to our problem,
getting from Newark to
the Central Park Zoo.
We'd like to prioritize nodes
that are closer to the zoo.
So using longitudes and latitudes,
we can easily calculate
the straight line distance
between any node and our target.
We'll order the nodes by their cost,
plus this straight line distance.
A great way to visualize this
comes from the channel Polylog.
We can represent each node's
straight line distance
to the target as its height,
so the graph stretches into 3D space.
The further a node is from
the zoo, the higher it is.
So the algorithm penalizes
moves that climb up the graph.
That way nodes in the opposite direction
aren't explored early on.
So while Dijkstra's search frontier
spreads out in all directions,
this modified Dijkstra's,
also called A-star,
immediately heads toward the zoo.
It only checks around 7,000 nodes,
which is almost a 10 times
improvement over Dijkstra's.
And by changing this penalty,
also called a heuristic,
we can tweak how aggressively
A-star targets the zoo.
The steeper the slope, the
less A-star spreads out.
It's a more human approach
to finding the shortest path,
since we're only exploring
in the rough direction of the target.
That's why A-star is one of
the most popular algorithms
behind video game NPCs.
For example, many of the mobs in Minecraft
use a version of A-star
with extra penalties
for dangerous zones.
It's also a popular
maze-solving algorithm.
At worst, A-star checks
as many nodes as Dijkstra.
But on the right maze,
it can cut down the search
space by more than half.
But when I'm trying to get somewhere,
I don't care about
minimizing the distance.
I just wanna get there the fastest.
(Henry laughing)
To optimize for time, we divide
the straight line distance
by the maximum speed allowed on the graph.
This gives us the minimum travel time.
But this heuristic is an
extreme underestimate.
- If you wanna go for the shortest path
in the sense that shortest
geographic distance,
you will gain some
advantages using A-star,
compared to Dijkstra.
If you go for travel time, A-star,
from my experience, loses
against a well-tuned Dijkstra.
You explore fewer nodes,
but not that many.
But you now also have to
evaluate quite a few heuristics
that you would not need to evaluate
when doing pure Dijkstra.
And those heuristic contain a
nasty square root computation.
- [Henry] On our New York City graph,
Dijkstra's algorithm explored
around 9.5 times more nodes
than A-star, to find the
shortest path by distance.
But if we switch that to
the shortest travel time,
the number of nodes
A-star explores triples,
while Dijkstra only increases by 10%.
And it only gets worse on larger graphs.
So Google Maps need something better
that works well for travel time.
What if we ran the search
in both directions?
From the source to the target,
and from the target to the source?
If two points are a distance R away,
Dijkstra searches most of the nodes
roughly within a circle
of area pi R-squared.
But with two searches,
the frontiers will
overlap around R over two,
and cover an area of half pi R-squared,
half that of the single search.
And depending on the graph,
it can sometimes be better than half.
A basic Dijkstra search from
Carnegie Hall to Wall Street
explored over 7,200 nodes.
But a bi-directional Dijkstra
explored a little over 2,600 nodes,
close to a three times improvement.
But even a bi-directional
search doesn't take advantage
of the logic built into road networks.
- They still do things
that you wouldn't necessarily conceive
as a good idea, right?
Like they still look at the
drive-through at In-N-Out
and see if there isn't
perhaps a shorter path
if you drive halfway into it,
and then some clever way out of it, right?
So maybe that is the intuition
between why kind of Dijkstra
and A-star itself don't suffice.
Both of them still kind
of don't have a good sense
of the hierarchy of the road network.
- When I think about how to
get from one place to another,
I know that I'm probably
gonna meander around
some local roads, then hop on a highway,
and then when I'm close to my destination,
I'm gonna hop off the highway and meander
around some more local roads.
There's a hierarchy to road networks,
but these algorithms can't
take advantage of them.
So they're as likely to
search a twisty local road
as an interstate highway,
as long as they have the same weight.
So how do we actually
encode that human intuition
into an algorithm?
- If you look at kind of
industry implementations
in the '90s, for instance,
like in these early in-car GPS systems,
they had like a pre-computed road class
that they annotated on the roads.
- So here was the basic idea.
Surveyors would go out and
take notes about a road.
Like its speed limit, how wide it was,
whether it was a highway.
And then they would send
that to the mapping companies
who would manually categorize
it into hierarchies.
An example of a hierarchy
might be express highway,
local major road, or
narrow road like this.
Once it had the maps,
GPS would run a bi-directional Dijkstra,
but there was a catch.
It first searched all the narrow roads
within a candidate area.
If it didn't find the target,
it mapped the path to the next hierarchy,
the major local roads.
Then search all of the major local roads
within the new candidate area.
If it still didn't find the target,
it moved up again to the highway level.
The two searches would
overlap at some point,
and return the final path.
This way, a little pre-processing
could reduce the search area
and take advantage of the road hierarchy.
- One obvious downside here is that
how do you correctly compute
those levels of hierarchy?
And how can you prove to
yourself that they're correct
in the sense that you are not
missing any shortest paths?
- For example, if the
candidate area is too small,
there's a chance the algorithm
returns a highway path,
when a series of local
roads really is better.
A much larger candidate area
might always find the shortest
path, but at some point,
that's not much better than Dijkstra.
If Google wanted to map the world,
they need a better routing algorithm.
(upbeat music)
Using a pre-processed hierarchy
gives us way faster query runtimes.
But, there's a trade-off.
Our brute force algorithm from earlier
where we just calculated all the paths
to get the shortest one
is a perfect example.
If we had a massive lookup
table of all the shortest paths
from any two points,
then we would get insanely
fast query runtimes.
But building that list
would take way too long.
Here I have a graph. On the
vertical axis is query runtime.
And on the horizontal axis
is pre-processing time.
In the case of our massive lookup table,
it would be right about here.
Even running Dijkstra
from every one of those
64 million intersections,
that's more than a decade
of compute on a single core.
And the entire table
would be more than eight
petabytes of raw data.
That's like storing all of
Wikipedia, 16 times over.
And even if we had the table,
we'd have to rebuild entire
portions whenever a road closes,
a new bridge opens, and for
every small traffic adjustment.
Now in reality it would probably
not even fit on this chart.
But for now, we're just gonna put it here.
On the other hand,
Dijkstra's algorithm requires
no pre-processing at all.
But it takes a long time to run.
So on our graph, it would fit about here.
Google Maps need something in between.
Very fast query run times,
but not too much pre-processing.
In that case, we want
to be in this region.
Now the idea is very similar
to the manual hierarchies,
but with two major changes.
First, we'll automatically
pre-process our graph
to order nodes by how important they are.
An exit connecting two
highways, quite important.
The intersection to a tiny
cul-de-sac, well, not as much.
No more categorizing roads by hand.
We'll still use a bi-directional Dijkstras
that only searches up the
hierarchy from both directions.
But if we build it clever enough,
we can get rid of candidate areas
and still guarantee the shortest path.
So phase one is building this hierarchy.
How do we pick the most
important nodes though?
Let's take a look at
these two small towns.
We're gonna throw away
everything in one town
except for this house for right now.
If someone in that house
wants to get anywhere,
they have to pass
through this intersection
at the end of the bridge.
All of the shortest paths
to and from their house
include that node, so it's
pretty important to them.
But that node isn't as important
to the rest of the town.
After all, the only
reason to cross the bridge
is to get to that one house.
But with more and more
houses on the other side,
the bridge node gets
more and more important.
Any trip from one side to
the other needs to use it.
It's the most important when the two towns
are roughly the same size, when
it splits the graph in half.
That's when the maximum
number of shortest paths
include that bridge.
There are other sets of nodes
that split the graph in half,
like this main street,
but there's far more
intersections along that street
than just the one bridge node.
So a small set of nodes,
or a small cut of nodes
is important when it roughly
splits the graph in half.
Let's bring back the
North American network.
These blue nodes roughly
split the graph in half.
If you wanted to get from
anywhere on the east coast,
to anywhere on the west coast,
you'd have to go through
one of these 102 nodes.
It's just like the bridge
connecting the two towns.
- That's really small.
But if you look at where
does this thing go,
that's essentially the Mississippi River.
And bridges over the Mississippi
are expensive to build.
- [Henry] These are the
biggest bottlenecks.
Out of all the 64 million plus nodes,
these 102 get the highest
rank, so the biggest numbers.
Now let's find the next
most important nodes.
- Well, what can we do on both sides?
Well, we can do the same thing.
We again, search for small cuts.
- The next cut on the east coast
follows the Ohio River.
And then it loosely traces
up the Appalachian Mountains
before heading back south
along the Potomac River.
On the west coast, the cut
mostly follows the Rockies,
and then the Colorado River.
These two sets get the next
highest ranks for their sides,
and we can split these in half
again and rank those nodes.
And again, and on and on,
until we've ranked all 64 million nodes.
This is called nested dissection.
This pre-processing step has two goals.
We want an algorithm that
doesn't search a lot of nodes,
so the runtime is really fast,
but also will always
return the shortest path.
The hierarchy we build now
needs to support both of these goals.
Let's test this out on a smaller graph.
We ignore the edge weights
for the first step.
These two nodes split the
graph roughly in half,
so we give them the highest rank.
Looking at one side, this node
splits the subset in half,
so it has the highest rank of the three.
We can rank the remaining
two nodes in any order.
Now, on the other side,
these two nodes split this subset in half.
So they have the next highest rank.
And then again,
we rank the final two nodes
with the remaining numbers.
But what about this ranking?
We split the graph the same,
but the rankings within the
same cut are all swapped around.
Or if we split the graph differently,
we could get this ranking.
It even splits the
graph perfectly in half.
Isn't that better? And these
rankings are all valid.
We'll see in a bit why we
could use any one of them.
But for now, we'll just take this one.
The best way to visualize
this ranking is to pull down,
or contract the nodes in order.
One is the furthest down,
two is next up, and so on.
Now we can bring in a search algorithm.
To speed up the runtime,
we limit the search space by
only moving up the hierarchy.
And that's why it's so important
to use a bi-directional Dijkstra.
If the algorithm couldn't
search in both directions,
it would get stuck on a lot of pairs.
So instead, the two
searches meet in the middle
at the top of the hierarchy.
Now let's add the edge weights back.
Okay, what's the shortest path
from node four to node eight?
Well, starting from
node four, we search up,
and reach node nine with a cost of 10,
From node eight, we also search up,
and get to node nine with a cost of five.
So that must be the shortest
path with a cost of 15. Done.
Except, there's a problem.
That's not the shortest path.
Using this path only costs three.
This search doesn't check paths
that go through lower rank nodes.
But we can fix it with a
little more pre-processing.
Start from the lowest rank.
Does this node connect to
at least two higher nodes?
On this graph, node one
connects to three and eight.
This is called a lower triangle.
And while there's a chance this path
is actually the shortest between
node three and node eight,
our search will never consider it.
So we'll add a shortcut between
nodes three and node eight.
That's just the cost
of this lower triangle.
Now, this edge doesn't
correspond to anything real
on the road network.
It's just a way to keep
track of shortest paths.
We move on to the next lowest
node and run the same test.
But there could be
multiple lower triangles,
or there might already be an edge
between the two higher nodes.
In those cases, the shortcut represents
whichever path has the minimum cost.
A path that only uses lower ranked nodes
is like a path that only
uses smaller local roads.
We don't want the algorithm
to return a highway route
if a local road is shorter.
Building shortcuts from the bottom up
makes sure we don't miss these paths,
while also ignoring them
if they aren't needed.
This way, we both limit the search space,
and never miss the shortest path.
But there's another benefit to shortcuts.
We don't need to worry too much about
getting a perfect ranking.
We can roughly cut the graph in half,
and rank nodes in the
same cut in any order.
If the ranking overlooks
the shortest path,
well, we'll add it back
later with a shortcut.
That's why we were able to
get three valid rankings
using the same instructions earlier.
But while any ranking will
still find the shortest path,
a bad one will go really slow,
or it'll quickly blow the graph up.
For example, with a series
of nodes in a straight line,
we don't need to add any shortcuts
if we just contract the
nodes from left to right.
But when we search between the two ends,
we have to explore every node and edge.
And that's no improvement over Dijkstra's.
Here's another possible ranking
with the necessary shortcuts.
End-to-end, we only need
to search two edges,
but we need a lot of shortcuts.
And in some sections, we still
have to check all the edges.
Manageable, but not very efficient.
- And so you want to have this trade-off
between the number of
shortcuts that you introduce
and how much faster the query gets.
- [Henry] In practice,
the nested dissection method
gets a decent node ordering
and doesn't take too long.
This entire algorithm is called
a customizable contraction hierarchy.
And Ben tested it out on
the North American network
to give us a sense of the runtimes.
In phase one, we order the
nodes and add shortcuts.
This doesn't change unless
the graph itself changes,
like a new bridge, or a road closure.
It's by far the most
expensive part of the process.
But once it's done, it
hardly ever changes.
- I think it would ended up at an hour 40
or something like that.
You can spend more time,
you get better results.
So it's an argument to make
that that's a good idea.
- [Derek] In phase two,
we calculate the weights
for all the shortcuts.
Whenever there's traffic updates,
we'll have to rerun this step.
So it needs to be relatively quick,
- I think seven, eight seconds
without parallelization
and take it down to about a second,
and then that's where the
memory starts setting.
- [Derek] Finally, phase
three is the actual search.
Remember, for a long path on
the North American network,
a well-tuned Dijkstra needs to explore
most of the 64 million nodes
and takes around seven seconds per path.
For this contraction hierarchy,
the query runtime was
around 200 microseconds.
- Depending on how you configure stuff,
you can get down to like
100 microseconds or so.
But for practical purposes,
below a millisecond is all you need.
- [Henry] That's 35,000
times faster than Dijkstra
in just this experiment.
And on average, it only
needed to explore 1,450 nodes,
cutting the search space by
a factor of around 44,000.
A Dijkstra search from
San Francisco to Montreal
would need to check all the
nodes roughly in this area.
On a customizable contraction hierarchy,
it only needs to search these 1,236 nodes.
Most of the nodes cluster
around the source and target.
Once it gets far enough up the hierarchy,
it only needs to check
the most important cuts,
like the Mississippi.
While we don't know exactly
what Google maps, Apple maps,
or any of these big routing applications
actually use under the hood,
they all could be built with
contraction hierarchies.
And customizable contraction hierarchies
is just one variation,
and there are even more routing algorithms
that we haven't covered.
But if you think about it,
its core search is still
Dijkstras, a 70-year-old algorithm.
Four decades after
Dijkstra publishes article,
Danish computer scientist Mikkel Thorup
said that all theoretical developments
in single source shortest paths
have been based on Dijkstra's algorithm.
And since 2000, many of the
newest shortest path algorithms
still use bits and pieces of Dijkstras.
From variations on
contraction hierarchies,
all the way to a recent
theoretical breakthrough
for an even faster
shortest path algorithm.
All of this, based on
a 20-minute invention.
Part of Dijkstra's enduring success
comes down to just how simple it is.
As he said, "Simplicity is
prerequisite for reliability."
Dijkstra thought deeply about problems
before ever touching a pen.
Because at the end of the
day, it would be a programmer
who is accountable for
their work, not the machine.
(speaking foreign language)
- So with those two ideas,
he hoped to have one lasting legacy.
He said, "If 10 years from now,
when you're doing
something quick and dirty,
you suddenly visualize that I'm here,
looking over your shoulders,
and say to yourself,
'Dijkstra would not have liked this.'
Well, that'd be enough
immortality for me."
So even if you can only control
your little corner of the world,
you can still make it as elegant
and thoughtful as possible.
For you, and all the
people who come after.
(bright music)
Before we go, I just wanted to
say thanks again to Boot.dev
for sponsoring this video.
If you guys wanna check 'em out,
you can check the link in our description,
or scan this QR code right here,
and make sure to use that
checkout code "Veritasium"
for 25% off.
So thanks to Boot.dev,
and I also wanted to
thank you for watching.
- [Speaker] You have
arrived at your destination.
(bright music)